# My-Master-Thesis
Title: Leave out or put in - selecting input data to improve ecological niche models applied to conservation and climate change analysis: an approach using the Atlantic Goliath Grouper, Epinephelus itajara (Perciformes)

Abstract

The offer of ready-to-use software pack¬ages and increasing availability of digital geoinformation about occurrence and environmetal data have considerably boosted the application of ecological niche models (ENMs)/species distribution models (SDMs)  in the past decades, greatly enabling their broader use for informing conservation and management, and for quantifying impacts from global change. However, although input data for ENM are increasingly available, to define procedures to both minimize uncertainties (spatial, environmental, temporal and taxonomic) associated to the occurrence data and to select the correct environmental predictors remain a challenge. This master thesis, structured into three chapters,  focuses on developing approaches to select input data for ENMs aiming to improve models applied to climate change and conservation analysis. To illustrate our approaches, we used an iconic threatened fish, the Atlantic Goliath Grouper (Epinephelus itajara), as a model species. In the first chapter, we developed a multiple steps framework that was able to support decision about the use of unreliable records in ecological niche modeling for the target species. We showed that uncertain occurrence records decrease the models' performance, increasing their omission error and decreasing their ability to project the models from the environmental space to the geographical space, leading to low power to predict suitable areas. In the second chapter, we compared models developed with different combinations of environmental predictors to assess the effect of adding habitat variables on ENMs performance. We found that habitat predictors in combination with climate have a strong influence on ENMs accuracy and suitability predictions. The model combining climate/salinity and habitat predictors for different habitats (EnvHabs) showed the best performance. Finally, in the third chapter, we applied the EnvHabs best model (EnvHabs) identified in the second chapter to assess the future climate change impacts on the geographic distribution of E. itajara and discuss its implications from a conservation point of view.
